# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

_Public Classes_

* [`apache`](#apache): Guides the basic setup and installation of Apache on your system.
* [`apache::dev`](#apachedev): Installs Apache development libraries.
* [`apache::ssl`](#apachessl): This class installs Apache SSL capabilities
* [`apache::vhosts`](#apachevhosts): Creates `apache::vhost` defined types.

_Private Classes_

* `apache::confd::no_accf`: 
* `apache::default_confd_files`: 
* `apache::default_mods`: 
* `apache::mod::actions`: 
* `apache::mod::alias`: 
* `apache::mod::auth_basic`: 
* `apache::mod::auth_cas`: 
* `apache::mod::auth_gssapi`: 
* `apache::mod::auth_kerb`: 
* `apache::mod::auth_mellon`: 
* `apache::mod::authn_core`: 
* `apache::mod::authn_dbd`: 
* `apache::mod::authn_file`: 
* `apache::mod::authnz_ldap`: 
* `apache::mod::authnz_pam`: 
* `apache::mod::authz_default`: 
* `apache::mod::authz_user`: 
* `apache::mod::autoindex`: 
* `apache::mod::cache`: 
* `apache::mod::cgi`: 
* `apache::mod::cgid`: 
* `apache::mod::cluster`: 
* `apache::mod::data`: 
* `apache::mod::dav`: 
* `apache::mod::dav_fs`: 
* `apache::mod::dav_svn`: 
* `apache::mod::dbd`: 
* `apache::mod::deflate`: 
* `apache::mod::dev`: 
* `apache::mod::dir`: 
* `apache::mod::disk_cache`: 
* `apache::mod::dumpio`: 
* `apache::mod::env`: 
* `apache::mod::event`: 
* `apache::mod::expires`: 
* `apache::mod::ext_filter`: 
* `apache::mod::fastcgi`: 
* `apache::mod::fcgid`: 
* `apache::mod::filter`: 
* `apache::mod::geoip`: 
* `apache::mod::headers`: 
* `apache::mod::http2`: 
* `apache::mod::include`: 
* `apache::mod::info`: 
* `apache::mod::intercept_form_submit`: 
* `apache::mod::itk`: 
* `apache::mod::jk`: 
* `apache::mod::ldap`: 
* `apache::mod::lookup_identity`: 
* `apache::mod::macro`: 
* `apache::mod::mime`: 
* `apache::mod::mime_magic`: 
* `apache::mod::negotiation`: 
* `apache::mod::nss`: 
* `apache::mod::pagespeed`: 
* `apache::mod::passenger`: 
* `apache::mod::perl`: 
* `apache::mod::peruser`: 
* `apache::mod::php`: 
* `apache::mod::prefork`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_ajp`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_balancer`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_connect`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_fcgi`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_html`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_http`: 
* `apache::mod::proxy_wstunnel`: 
* `apache::mod::python`: 
* `apache::mod::remoteip`: Setup and load Apache `mod_remoteip`
* `apache::mod::reqtimeout`: 
* `apache::mod::rewrite`: 
* `apache::mod::rpaf`: 
* `apache::mod::security`: 
* `apache::mod::setenvif`: 
* `apache::mod::shib`: 
* `apache::mod::socache_shmcb`: 
* `apache::mod::speling`: 
* `apache::mod::ssl`: 
* `apache::mod::status`: This class enables and configures Apache mod_status
* `apache::mod::suexec`: 
* `apache::mod::suphp`: 
* `apache::mod::userdir`: 
* `apache::mod::version`: 
* `apache::mod::vhost_alias`: 
* `apache::mod::worker`: Manages the Apache worker MPM
* `apache::mod::wsgi`: 
* `apache::mod::xsendfile`: 
* `apache::package`: 
* `apache::params`: This class manages Apache parameters
* `apache::php`: This class installs PHP for Apache
* `apache::proxy`: This class enabled the proxy module for Apache
* `apache::python`: This class installs Python for Apache
* `apache::service`: 
* `apache::version`: Try to automatically detect the version by OS

**Defined types**

_Public Defined types_

* [`apache::balancer`](#apachebalancer): This type will create an apache balancer cluster file inside the conf.d
directory.
* [`apache::balancermember`](#apachebalancermember): Defines members of `mod_proxy_balancer`
* [`apache::custom_config`](#apachecustom_config): Adds a custom configuration file to the Apache server's `conf.d` directory.
* [`apache::fastcgi::server`](#apachefastcgiserver): Defines one or more external FastCGI servers to handle specific file types. Use this
defined type with `mod_fastcgi`.
* [`apache::listen`](#apachelisten): Adds `Listen` directives to `ports.conf` that define the
Apache server's or a virtual host's listening address and port.
* [`apache::mod`](#apachemod): Installs packages for an Apache module that doesn't have a corresponding
`apache::mod::<MODULE NAME>` class.
* [`apache::namevirtualhost`](#apachenamevirtualhost): Enables name-based virtual hosts
* [`apache::vhost`](#apachevhost): Allows specialised cnfigurations for virtual hosts that possess requirements
outside of the defaults.
* [`apache::vhost::custom`](#apachevhostcustom): A wrapper around the `apache::custom_config` defined type.

_Private Defined types_

* `apache::default_mods::load`: 
* `apache::mpm`: 
* `apache::peruser::multiplexer`: 
* `apache::peruser::processor`: 
* `apache::security::rule_link`: 

**Resource types**

* [`a2mod`](#a2mod): Manage Apache 2 modules

**Functions**

* [`apache::apache_pw_hash`](#apacheapache_pw_hash): Hashes a password in a format suitable for htpasswd files read by apache.
* [`apache::bool2httpd`](#apachebool2httpd): Transform a supposed boolean to On or Off. Pass all other values through.
* [`apache::validate_apache_log_level`](#apachevalidate_apache_log_level): Perform simple validation of a string against the list of known log levels.
* [`apache_pw_hash`](#apache_pw_hash): Hashes a password in a format suitable for htpasswd files read by apache.
* [`bool2httpd`](#bool2httpd): Transform a supposed boolean to On or Off. Pass all other values through.
* [`validate_apache_log_level`](#validate_apache_log_level): Perform simple validation of a string against the list of known log levels.

**Tasks**

* [`init`](#init): Allows you to perform apache service functions

## Classes

### apache

When this class is declared with the default options, Puppet:
- Installs the appropriate Apache software package and [required Apache modules](#default_mods) for your operating system.
- Places the required configuration files in a directory, with the [default location](#conf_dir) determined by your operating system.
- Configures the server with a default virtual host and standard port ('80') and address ('\*') bindings.
- Creates a document root directory determined by your operating system, typically `/var/www`.
- Starts the Apache service.

You can simply declare the default `apache` class:
``` puppet
class { 'apache': }
```

Specifies the location where [Apache module][Apache modules] files are stored.<br />
> **Note**: Do not configure this parameter manually without special reason.

Allows the user to override default module package names.
  ```puppet
  include apache::params
  class { 'apache':
    mod_packages => merge($::apache::params::mod_packages, {
      'auth_kerb' => 'httpd24-mod_auth_kerb',
    })
  }
  ```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache` class.

##### `allow_encoded_slashes`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off', 'nodecode']]`

Sets the server default for the [`AllowEncodedSlashes`][] declaration, which modifies the
responses to URLs containing '\' and '/' characters. If not specified, this parameter omits
the declaration from the server's configuration and uses Apache's default setting of 'off'.
Values: 'on', 'off', 'nodecode'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `apache_version`

Data type: `Any`

Configures module template behavior, package names, and default Apache modules by defining
the version of Apache to use. We do not recommend manually configuring this parameter
without reason.

Default value: $::apache::version::default

##### `conf_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the directory where the Apache server's main configuration file is located.

Default value: $::apache::params::conf_dir

##### `conf_template`

Data type: `Any`

Defines the template used for the main Apache configuration file. Modifying this
parameter is potentially risky, as the apache module is designed to use a minimal
configuration file customized by `conf.d` entries.

Default value: $::apache::params::conf_template

##### `confd_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the location of the Apache server's custom configuration directory.

Default value: $::apache::params::confd_dir

##### `default_charset`

Data type: `Any`

Used as the `AddDefaultCharset` directive in the main configuration file.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_confd_files`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether Puppet generates a default set of includable Apache configuration files
in the directory defined by the `confd_dir` parameter. These configuration files
correspond to what is typically installed with the Apache package on the server's
operating system.

Default value: `true`

##### `default_mods`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to configure and enable a set of default Apache modules depending on
your operating system.<br />
If `false`, Puppet includes only the Apache modules required to make the HTTP daemon work
on your operating system, and you can declare any other modules separately using the
`apache::mod::<MODULE NAME>` class or `apache::mod` defined type.<br />
If `true`, Puppet installs additional modules, depending on the operating system and
the values of `apache_version` and `mpm_module` parameters. Because these lists of
modules can change frequently, consult the Puppet module's code for up-to-date lists.<br />
If this parameter contains an array, Puppet instead enables all passed Apache modules.

Default value: `true`

##### `default_ssl_ca`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the default certificate authority for the Apache server.<br />
Although the default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update
this parameter with your certificate authority information before deploying this server in
a production environment.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_ssl_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the SSL encryption certificate location.<br />
Although the default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update this
parameter with your certificate location before deploying this server in a production environment.

Default value: $::apache::params::default_ssl_cert

##### `default_ssl_chain`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the default SSL chain location.<br />
Although this default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update
this parameter with your SSL chain before deploying this server in a production environment.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_ssl_crl`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the path of the default [certificate revocation list][] (CRL) file to use.<br />
Although this default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update
this parameter with the CRL file path before deploying this server in a production
environment. You can use this parameter with or in place of the `default_ssl_crl_path`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_ssl_crl_path`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the server's [certificate revocation list path][], which contains your CRLs.<br />
Although this default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update
this parameter with the CRL file path before deploying this server in a production environment.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_ssl_crl_check`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the default certificate revocation check level via the `SSLCARevocationCheck` directive.
This parameter applies only to Apache 2.4 or higher and is ignored on older versions.<br />
Although this default value results in a functioning Apache server, you **must** specify
this parameter when using certificate revocation lists in a production environment.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_ssl_key`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSL certificate key file][] location.
Although the default values result in a functioning Apache server, you **must** update
this parameter with your SSL key's location before deploying this server in a production
environment.

Default value: $::apache::params::default_ssl_key

##### `default_ssl_vhost`

Data type: `Boolean`

Configures a default [SSL][SSL encryption] virtual host.
If `true`, Puppet automatically configures the following virtual host using the
`apache::vhost` defined type:
```puppet
apache::vhost { 'default-ssl':
  port            => 443,
  ssl             => true,
  docroot         => $docroot,
  scriptalias     => $scriptalias,
  serveradmin     => $serveradmin,
  access_log_file => "ssl_${access_log_file}",
}
```
**Note**: SSL virtual hosts only respond to HTTPS queries.

Default value: `false`

##### `default_type`

Data type: `Any`

_Apache 2.2 only_. Sets the MIME `content-type` sent if the server cannot otherwise
determine an appropriate `content-type`. This directive is deprecated in Apache 2.4 and
newer, and is only for backwards compatibility in configuration files.

Default value: 'none'

##### `default_vhost`

Data type: `Boolean`

Configures a default virtual host when the class is declared.<br />
To configure [customized virtual hosts][Configuring virtual hosts], set this parameter's
value to `false`.<br />
> **Note**: Apache will not start without at least one virtual host. If you set this
to `false` you must configure a virtual host elsewhere.

Default value: `true`

##### `dev_packages`

Data type: `Any`

Configures a specific dev package to use.<br />
Example for using httpd 2.4 from the IUS yum repo:<br />
``` puppet
include ::apache::dev
class { 'apache':
  apache_name  => 'httpd24u',
  dev_packages => 'httpd24u-devel',
}
```

Default value: $::apache::params::dev_packages

##### `docroot`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the default `DocumentRoot` location.

Default value: $::apache::params::docroot

##### `error_documents`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to enable custom error documents on the Apache server.

Default value: `false`

##### `group`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the group ID that owns any Apache processes spawned to answer requests.<br />
By default, Puppet attempts to manage this group as a resource under the `apache`
class, determining the group based on the operating system as detected by the
`apache::params` class. To prevent the group resource from being created and use a group
created by another Puppet module, set the `manage_group` parameter's value to `false`.<br />
> **Note**: Modifying this parameter only changes the group ID that Apache uses to spawn
child processes to access resources. It does not change the user that owns the parent server
process.

Default value: $::apache::params::group

##### `httpd_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the Apache server's base configuration directory. This is useful for specially
repackaged Apache server builds but might have unintended consequences when combined
with the default distribution packages.

Default value: $::apache::params::httpd_dir

##### `http_protocol_options`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the strictness of HTTP protocol checks.<br />
Valid options: any sequence of the following alternative values: `Strict` or `Unsafe`,
`RegisteredMethods` or `LenientMethods`, and `Allow0.9` or `Require1.0`.

Default value: $::apache::params::http_protocol_options

##### `keepalive`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to enable persistent HTTP connections with the `KeepAlive` directive.
If you set this to 'On', use the `keepalive_timeout` and `max_keepalive_requests` parameters
to set relevant options.<br />
Values: 'Off', 'On'.

Default value: $::apache::params::keepalive

##### `keepalive_timeout`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the `KeepAliveTimeout` directive, which determines the amount of time the Apache
server waits for subsequent requests on a persistent HTTP connection. This parameter is
only relevant if the `keepalive` parameter is enabled.

Default value: $::apache::params::keepalive_timeout

##### `max_keepalive_requests`

Data type: `Any`

Limits the number of requests allowed per connection when the `keepalive` parameter is enabled.

Default value: $::apache::params::max_keepalive_requests

##### `hostname_lookups`

Data type: `Enum['Off', 'On', 'Double', 'off', 'on', 'double']`

This directive enables DNS lookups so that host names can be logged and passed to
CGIs/SSIs in REMOTE_HOST. Values:'On','Off','Double'.<br />
> **Note**: If enabled, it impacts performance significantly.

Default value: $::apache::params::hostname_lookups

##### `lib_path`

Data type: `Any`



Default value: $::apache::params::lib_path

##### `log_level`

Data type: `Any`

Changes the error log's verbosity. Values: 'alert', 'crit', 'debug', 'emerg', 'error',
'info', 'notice', 'warn'.

Default value: $::apache::params::log_level

##### `log_formats`

Data type: `Any`

Define additional [`LogFormat`][] directives. Values: A [hash][], such as:
``` puppet
$log_formats = { vhost_common => '%v %h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b' }
```
  There are a number of predefined `LogFormats` in the `httpd.conf` that Puppet creates:
``` httpd
  LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b \"%{Referer}i\" \"%{User-Agent}i\"" combined
  LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %b" common
  LogFormat "%{Referer}i -> %U" referer
  LogFormat "%{User-agent}i" agent
  LogFormat "%{X-Forwarded-For}i %l %u %t \"%r\" %s %b \"%{Referer}i\" \"%{User-agent}i\"" forwarded
```
If your `log_formats` parameter contains one of those, it will be overwritten with **your** definition.

Default value: {}

##### `logroot`

Data type: `Any`

Changes the directory of Apache log files for the virtual host.

Default value: $::apache::params::logroot

##### `logroot_mode`

Data type: `Any`

Overrides the default `logroot` directory's mode.<br />
> **Note**: Do _not_ grant write access to the directory where the logs are stored
without being aware of the consequences. See the [Apache documentation][Log security]
for details.

Default value: $::apache::params::logroot_mode

##### `manage_group`

Data type: `Boolean`

When `false`, stops Puppet from creating the group resource.<br />
If you have a group created from another Puppet module that you want to use to run Apache,
set this to `false`. Without this parameter, attempting to use a previously established
group results in a duplicate resource error.

Default value: `true`

##### `supplementary_groups`

Data type: `Any`

A list of groups to which the user belongs. These groups are in addition to the primary group.<br />
Notice: This option only has an effect when `manage_user` is set to true.

Default value: []

##### `manage_user`

Data type: `Boolean`

When `false`, stops Puppet from creating the user resource.<br />
This is for instances when you have a user, created from another Puppet module, you want
to use to run Apache. Without this parameter, attempting to use a previously established
user would result in a duplicate resource error.

Default value: `true`

##### `mod_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Sets where Puppet places configuration files for your Apache modules].

Default value: $::apache::params::mod_dir

##### `mod_libs`

Data type: `Any`

Allows the user to override default module library names.
```puppet
include apache::params
class { 'apache':
  mod_libs => merge($::apache::params::mod_libs, {
    'wsgi' => 'mod_wsgi_python3.so',
  })
}
```

Default value: $::apache::params::mod_libs

##### `mod_packages`

Data type: `Any`



Default value: $::apache::params::mod_packages

##### `mpm_module`

Data type: `Any`

Determines which [multi-processing module][] (MPM) is loaded and configured for the
HTTPD process. Values: 'event', 'itk', 'peruser', 'prefork', 'worker', or `false`.<br />
You must set this to `false` to explicitly declare the following classes with custom parameters:
- `apache::mod::event`
- `apache::mod::itk`
- `apache::mod::peruser`
- `apache::mod::prefork`
- `apache::mod::worker`

Default value: $::apache::params::mpm_module

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Any`

Controls the `package` resource's `ensure` attribute. Values: 'absent', 'installed'
(or equivalent 'present'), or a version string.

Default value: 'installed'

##### `pidfile`

Data type: `Any`

Allows settting a custom location for the pid file. Useful if using a custom-built Apache rpm.

Default value: $::apache::params::pidfile

##### `ports_file`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the path to the file containing Apache ports configuration.

Default value: $::apache::params::ports_file

##### `protocols`

Data type: `Array[Enum['h2', 'h2c', 'http/1.1']]`

Sets the [Protocols](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/en/mod/core.html#protocols)
directive, which lists available protocols for the server.

Default value: []

##### `protocols_honor_order`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [ProtocolsHonorOrder](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/en/mod/core.html#protocolshonororder)
directive which determines whether the order of Protocols sets precedence during negotiation.

Default value: `undef`

##### `purge_configs`

Data type: `Any`

Removes all other Apache configs and virtual hosts.<br />
Setting this to `false` is a stopgap measure to allow the apache module to coexist with
existing or unmanaged configurations. We recommend moving your configuration to resources
within this module. For virtual host configurations, see `purge_vhost_dir`.

Default value: `true`

##### `purge_vhost_dir`

Data type: `Any`

If the `vhost_dir` parameter's value differs from the `confd_dir` parameter's, this parameter
determines whether Puppet removes any configurations inside `vhost_dir` that are _not_ managed
by Puppet.<br />
Setting `purge_vhost_dir` to `false` is a stopgap measure to allow the apache module to
coexist with existing or otherwise unmanaged configurations within `vhost_dir`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrite_lock`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Allows setting a custom location for a rewrite lock - considered best practice if using
a RewriteMap of type prg in the `rewrites` parameter of your virtual host. This parameter
only applies to Apache version 2.2 or lower and is ignored on newer versions.

Default value: `undef`

##### `sendfile`

Data type: `Enum['On', 'Off', 'on', 'off']`

Forces Apache to use the Linux kernel's `sendfile` support to serve static files, via the
[`EnableSendfile`][] directive. Values: 'On', 'Off'.

Default value: 'On'

##### `serveradmin`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the Apache server administrator's contact information via Apache's `ServerAdmin` directive.

Default value: 'root@localhost'

##### `servername`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the Apache server name via Apache's [`ServerName`][] directive.
Setting to `false` will not set ServerName at all.

Default value: $::apache::params::servername

##### `server_root`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the Apache server's root directory via Apache's [`ServerRoot`][] directive.

Default value: $::apache::params::server_root

##### `server_signature`

Data type: `Any`

Configures a trailing footer line to display at the bottom of server-generated documents,
such as error documents and output of certain Apache modules, via Apache's `ServerSignature`
directive. Values: 'Off', 'On'.

Default value: 'On'

##### `server_tokens`

Data type: `Any`

Controls how much information Apache sends to the browser about itself and the operating
system, via Apache's `ServerTokens` directive.

Default value: 'Prod'

##### `service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether Puppet enables the Apache HTTPD service when the system is booted.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_ensure`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether Puppet should make sure the service is running.
Values: `true` (or 'running'), `false` (or 'stopped').<br />
The `false` or 'stopped' values set the 'httpd' service resource's `ensure` parameter
to `false`, which is useful when you want to let the service be managed by another
application, such as Pacemaker.<br />

Default value: 'running'

##### `service_name`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the name of the Apache service.

Default value: $::apache::params::service_name

##### `service_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether Puppet manages the HTTPD service's state.

Default value: `true`

##### `service_restart`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether Puppet should use a specific command to restart the HTTPD service.
Values: a command to restart the Apache service. The default setting uses the
[default Puppet behavior][Service attribute restart].

Default value: `undef`

##### `timeout`

Data type: `Any`

Sets Apache's `TimeOut` directive, which defines the number of seconds Apache waits for
certain events before failing a request.

Default value: '60'

##### `trace_enable`

Data type: `Any`

Controls how Apache handles `TRACE` requests (per RFC 2616) via the `TraceEnable` directive.<br />
Values: 'Off', 'On'.

Default value: 'On'

##### `use_canonical_name`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['On', 'on', 'Off', 'off', 'DNS', 'dns']]`

Controls Apache's `UseCanonicalName` directive which controls how Apache handles
self-referential URLs. If not specified, this parameter omits the declaration from the
server's configuration and uses Apache's default setting of 'off'.<br />
Values: 'On', 'on', 'Off', 'off', 'DNS', 'dns'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `use_systemd`

Data type: `Any`

Controls whether the systemd module should be installed on Centos 7 servers, this is
especially useful if using custom-built RPMs.

Default value: $::apache::params::use_systemd

##### `file_mode`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the desired permissions mode for config files.
Values: A string, with permissions mode in symbolic or numeric notation.

Default value: $::apache::params::file_mode

##### `root_directory_options`

Data type: `Any`

Array of the desired options for the / directory in httpd.conf.

Default value: $::apache::params::root_directory_options

##### `root_directory_secured`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets the default access policy for the / directory in httpd.conf. A value of `false`
allows access to all resources that are missing a more specific access policy. A value of
`true` denies access to all resources by default. If `true`, more specific rules must be
used to allow access to these resources (for example, in a directory block using the
[`directories`](#parameter-directories-for-apachevhost) parameter).

Default value: `false`

##### `vhost_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Changes your virtual host configuration files' location.

Default value: $::apache::params::vhost_dir

##### `vhost_include_pattern`

Data type: `Any`

Defines the pattern for files included from the `vhost_dir`.
If set to a value like `[^.#]\*.conf[^~]` to make sure that files accidentally created in
this directory (such as files created by version control systems or editor backups) are
*not* included in your server configuration.<br />
Some operating systems use a value of `*.conf`. By default, this module creates configuration
files ending in `.conf`.

Default value: $::apache::params::vhost_include_pattern

##### `user`

Data type: `Any`

Changes the user that Apache uses to answer requests. Apache's parent process continues
to run as root, but child processes access resources as the user defined by this parameter.
To prevent Puppet from managing the user, set the `manage_user` parameter to `false`.

Default value: $::apache::params::user

##### `apache_name`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the Apache package to install. If you are using a non-standard Apache package
you might need to override the default setting.<br />
For CentOS/RHEL Software Collections (SCL), you can also use `apache::version::scl_httpd_version`.

Default value: $::apache::params::apache_name

##### `error_log`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the error log file for the main server instance. If the string starts with
`/`, `|`, or `syslog`: the full path is set. Otherwise, the filename  is prefixed with
`$logroot`.

Default value: $::apache::params::error_log

##### `scriptalias`

Data type: `Any`

Directory to use for global script alias

Default value: $::apache::params::scriptalias

##### `access_log_file`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the access log file for the main server instance.

Default value: $::apache::params::access_log_file

##### `limitreqfields`

Data type: `Any`

The `limitreqfields` parameter sets the maximum number of request header fields in
an HTTP request. This directive gives the server administrator greater control over
abnormal client request behavior, which may be useful for avoiding some forms of
denial-of-service attacks. The value should be increased if normal clients see an error
response from the server that indicates too many fields were sent in the request.#

Default value: '100'

##### `limitreqfieldsize`

Data type: `Any`

The `limitreqfieldsize` parameter sets the maximum ammount of _bytes_ that will
be allowed within a request header.

Default value: '8190'

##### `ip`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the ip address

Default value: `undef`

##### `purge_vdir`

Data type: `Any`

Removes all other Apache configs and virtual hosts.<br />
> **Note**: This parameter is deprecated in favor of the `purge_config` parameter.<br />

Default value: `false`

##### `conf_enabled`

Data type: `Any`

Whether the additional config files in `/etc/apache2/conf-enabled` should be managed.

Default value: $::apache::params::conf_enabled

##### `vhost_enable_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Set's whether the vhost definitions will be stored in sites-availible and if
they will be symlinked to and from sites-enabled.

Default value: $::apache::params::vhost_enable_dir

##### `mod_enable_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Set's whether the mods-enabled directory should be managed.

Default value: $::apache::params::mod_enable_dir

##### `ssl_file`

Data type: `Any`

This parameter allows you to set an ssl.conf file to be managed in order to implement
an SSL Certificate.

Default value: `undef`

##### `file_e_tag`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the server default for the `FileETag` declaration, which modifies the response header
field for static files.

Default value: `undef`

##### `use_optional_includes`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether Apache uses the `IncludeOptional` directive instead of `Include` for
`additional_includes` in Apache 2.4 or newer.

Default value: $::apache::params::use_optional_includes

##### `mime_types_additional`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies any idditional Internet media (mime) types that you wish to be configured.

Default value: $::apache::params::mime_types_additional

### apache::dev

Default: Depends on the operating system:`dev_packages` parameter of the `apache::params`
class, based on your operating system:

- **Debian** : 'libaprutil1-dev', 'libapr1-dev'; 'apache2-dev' on Ubuntu 13.10 and Debian 8; 'apache2-prefork-dev' on other versions.
- **FreeBSD**: `undef`; on FreeBSD, you must declare the `apache::package` or `apache` classes before declaring `apache::dev`.
- **Gentoo**: `undef`.
- **Red Hat**: 'httpd-devel'.

### apache::ssl

Parameters:
- The $ssl_package name from the apache::params class

Actions:
  - Install Apache SSL capabilities

Requires:

Sample Usage:

### apache::vhosts

> **Note**: See the `apache::vhost` defined type's reference for a list of all virtual host parameters or [Configuring virtual hosts].

For example, to create a [name-based virtual host][name-based virtual hosts] 'custom_vhost_1,
declare this class with the `vhosts` parameter set to
'{ "custom_vhost_1" => { "docroot" => "/var/www/custom_vhost_1", "port" => "81" }':

``` puppet
class { 'apache::vhosts':
  vhosts => {
    'custom_vhost_1' => {
      'docroot' => '/var/www/custom_vhost_1',
      'port'    => '81',
    },
  },
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::vhosts` class.

##### `vhosts`

Data type: `Any`

A hash, where the key represents the name and the value represents a hash] of
`apache::vhost` defined type's parameters.

Default value: {}

## Defined types

### apache::balancer

Each balancer cluster needs one or more balancer members (that can
be declared with the apache::balancermember defined resource type). Using
storeconfigs, you can export the apache::balancermember resources on all
balancer members, and then collect them on a single apache load balancer
server.

#### Requirement/Dependencies:

Currently requires the puppetlabs/concat module on the Puppet Forge and uses
storeconfigs on the Puppet Master to export/collect resources from all
balancer members.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
apache::balancer { 'puppet00': }
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::balancer` defined type.

##### `name`

The namevar of the defined resource type is the balancer clusters name.<br />
This name is also used in the name of the conf.d file

##### `proxy_set`

Data type: `Any`

Configures key-value pairs to be used as a ProxySet lines in the configuration.

Default value: {}

##### `target`

Data type: `Any`

If given, path to the file the balancer definition will be written.

Default value: `undef`

##### `collect_exported`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to use exported resources.<br />
If you statically declare all of your backend servers, set this parameter to false to rely
on existing, declared balancer member resources. Also, use apache::balancermember with array
arguments.<br />
To dynamically declare backend servers via exported resources collected on a central node,
set this parameter to true to collect the balancer member resources exported by the balancer
member nodes.<br />
If you don't use exported resources, a single Puppet run configures all balancer members. If
you use exported resources, Puppet has to run on the balanced nodes first, then run on the
balancer.

Default value: `true`

##### `options`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of [options](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#balancermember)
after the balancer URL, and accepts any key-value pairs available to `ProxyPass`.

Default value: []

### apache::balancermember

Sets up a balancer member inside a listening service configuration block in
the load balancer's `apache.cfg`.

This type will setup a balancer member inside a listening service
configuration block in /etc/apache/apache.cfg on the load balancer.
Currently it only has the ability to specify the instance name, url and an
array of options. More features can be added as needed. The best way to
implement this is to export this resource for all apache balancer member
servers, and then collect them on the main apache load balancer.

#### Requirement/Dependencies:

Currently requires the puppetlabs/concat module on the Puppet Forge and
uses storeconfigs on the Puppet Master to export/collect resources
from all balancer members.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
@@apache::balancermember { 'apache':
  balancer_cluster => 'puppet00',
  url              => "ajp://${::fqdn}:8009"
  options          => ['ping=5', 'disablereuse=on', 'retry=5', 'ttl=120'],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::balancermember` defined type.

##### `name`

The title of the resource is arbitrary and only utilized in the concat
fragment name.

##### `balancer_cluster`

Data type: `Any`

The apache service's instance name (or, the title of the apache::balancer
resource). This must match up with a declared apache::balancer resource.

##### `url`

Data type: `Any`

The url used to contact the balancer member server.

Default value: "http://${::fqdn}/"

##### `options`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of [options](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#balancermember)
after the URL, and accepts any key-value pairs available to `ProxyPass`.

Default value: []

### apache::custom_config

If the file is invalid and this defined type's `verify_config` parameter's value is
`true`, Puppet throws an error during a Puppet run.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::custom_config` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['absent', 'present']`

Specifies whether the configuration file should be present.

Default value: 'present'

##### `confdir`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the directory in which Puppet places configuration files.

Default value: $::apache::confd_dir

##### `content`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the configuration file's content. The `content` and `source` parameters are exclusive
of each other.

Default value: `undef`

##### `filename`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the name of the file under `confdir` in which Puppet stores the configuration.

Default value: `undef`

##### `priority`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the configuration file's priority by prefixing its filename with this parameter's
numeric value, as Apache processes configuration files in alphanumeric order.<br />
To omit the priority prefix in the configuration file's name, set this parameter to `false`.

Default value: '25'

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

Points to the configuration file's source. The `content` and `source` parameters are
exclusive of each other.

Default value: `undef`

##### `verify_command`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the command Puppet uses to verify the configuration file. Use a fully qualified
command.<br />
This parameter is used only if the `verify_config` parameter's value is `true`. If the
`verify_command` fails, the Puppet run deletes the configuration file and raises an error,
but does not notify the Apache service.

Default value: $::apache::params::verify_command

##### `verify_config`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether to validate the configuration file before notifying the Apache service.

Default value: `true`

### apache::fastcgi::server

Defines one or more external FastCGI servers to handle specific file types. Use this
defined type with `mod_fastcgi`.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::fastcgi::server` defined type.

##### `host`

Data type: `Any`

Determines the FastCGI's hostname or IP address and TCP port number (1-65535).

Default value: '127.0.0.1:9000'

##### `timeout`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the number of seconds a [FastCGI][] application can be inactive before aborting the
request and logging the event at the error LogLevel. The inactivity timer applies only as
long as a connection is pending with the FastCGI application. If a request is queued to an
application, but the application doesn't respond by writing and flushing within this period,
the request is aborted. If communication is complete with the application but incomplete with
the client (the response is buffered), the timeout does not apply.

Default value: 15

##### `flush`

Data type: `Any`

Forces [`mod_fastcgi`][FastCGI] to write to the client as data is received from the
application. By default, `mod_fastcgi` buffers data in order to free the application
as quickly as possible.

Default value: `false`

##### `faux_path`

Data type: `Any`

Apache has FastCGI handle URIs that resolve to this filename. The path set in this
parameter does not have to exist in the local filesystem.

Default value: "/var/www/${name}.fcgi"

##### `fcgi_alias`

Data type: `Any`

Internally links actions with the FastCGI server. This alias must be unique.

Default value: "/${name}.fcgi"

##### `file_type`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the MIME `content-type` of the file to be processed by the FastCGI server.

Default value: 'application/x-httpd-php'

##### `pass_header`

Data type: `Any`



Default value: `undef`

### apache::listen

The `apache::vhost` class uses this defined type, and titles take the form
`<PORT>`, `<IPV4>:<PORT>`, or `<IPV6>:<PORT>`.

### apache::mod

Checks for or places the module's default configuration files in the Apache server's
`module` and `enable` directories. The default locations depend on your operating system.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::mod` defined type.

##### `package`

Data type: `Any`

**Required**.<br />
Names the package Puppet uses to install the Apache module.

Default value: `undef`

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether Puppet ensures the Apache module should be installed.

Default value: 'present'

##### `lib`

Data type: `Any`

Defines the module's shared object name. Do not configure manually without special reason.

Default value: `undef`

##### `lib_path`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies a path to the module's libraries. Do not manually set this parameter
without special reason. The `path` parameter overrides this value.

Default value: $::apache::lib_path

##### `loadfile_name`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the filename for the module's `LoadFile` directive, which can also set
the module load order as Apache processes them in alphanumeric order.

Default value: `undef`

##### `id`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the package id

Default value: `undef`

##### `loadfiles`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of `LoadFile` directives.

Default value: `undef`

##### `path`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies a path to the module. Do not manually set this parameter without a special reason.

Default value: `undef`

### apache::namevirtualhost

Adds all related directives to the `ports.conf` file in the Apache HTTPD configuration
directory. Titles can take the forms '\*', '\*:\<PORT\>', '\_default\_:\<PORT\>,
'\<IP\>', or '\<IP\>:\<PORT\>'.

### apache::vhost

The apache module allows a lot of flexibility in the setup and configuration of virtual hosts.
This flexibility is due, in part, to `vhost` being a defined resource type, which allows Apache
to evaluate it multiple times with different parameters.<br />
The `apache::vhost` defined type allows you to have specialized configurations for virtual hosts
that have requirements outside the defaults. You can set up a default virtual host within
the base `::apache` class, as well as set a customized virtual host as the default.
Customized virtual hosts have a lower numeric `priority` than the base class's, causing
Apache to process the customized virtual host first.<br />
The `apache::vhost` defined type uses `concat::fragment` to build the configuration file. To
inject custom fragments for pieces of the configuration that the defined type doesn't
inherently support, add a custom fragment.<br />
For the custom fragment's `order` parameter, the `apache::vhost` defined type uses multiples
of 10, so any `order` that isn't a multiple of 10 should work.<br />
> **Note:** When creating an `apache::vhost`, it cannot be named `default` or `default-ssl`,
because vhosts with these titles are always managed by the module. This means that you cannot
override `Apache::Vhost['default']`  or `Apache::Vhost['default-ssl]` resources. An optional
workaround is to create a vhost named something else, such as `my default`, and ensure that the
`default` and `default_ssl` vhosts are set to `false`:

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'apache':
  default_vhost     => false,
  default_ssl_vhost => false,
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::vhost` defined type.

##### `apache_version`

Data type: `Any`

Apache's version number as a string, such as '2.2' or '2.4'.

Default value: $::apache::apache_version

##### `access_log`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether to configure `*_access.log` directives (`*_file`,`*_pipe`, or `*_syslog`).

Default value: `true`

##### `access_log_env_var`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies that only requests with particular environment variables be logged.

Default value: `false`

##### `access_log_file`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the filename of the `*_access.log` placed in `logroot`. Given a virtual host---for
instance, example.com---it defaults to 'example.com_ssl.log' for
[SSL-encrypted][SSL encryption] virtual hosts and 'example.com_access.log' for
unencrypted virtual hosts.

Default value: `false`

##### `access_log_format`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the use of either a `LogFormat` nickname or a custom-formatted string for the
access log.

Default value: `false`

##### `access_log_pipe`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies a pipe where Apache sends access log messages.

Default value: `false`

##### `access_log_syslog`

Data type: `Any`

Sends all access log messages to syslog.

Default value: `false`

##### `access_logs`

Data type: `Optional[Array]`

Allows you to give a hash that specifies the state of each of the access_log_*
directives shown above, i.e. access_log_pipe and access_log_syslog.

Default value: `undef`

##### `add_default_charset`

Data type: `Any`

Sets a default media charset value for the `AddDefaultCharset` directive, which is
added to `text/plain` and `text/html` responses.

Default value: `undef`

##### `add_listen`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether the virtual host creates a `Listen` statement.<br />
Setting `add_listen` to `false` prevents the virtual host from creating a `Listen`
statement. This is important when combining virtual hosts that aren't passed an `ip`
parameter with those that are.

Default value: `true`

##### `use_optional_includes`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies whether Apache uses the `IncludeOptional` directive instead of `Include` for
`additional_includes` in Apache 2.4 or newer.

Default value: $::apache::use_optional_includes

##### `additional_includes`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies paths to additional static, virtual host-specific Apache configuration files.
You can use this parameter to implement a unique, custom configuration not supported by
this module.

Default value: []

##### `aliases`

Data type: `Any`

Passes a list of [hashes][hash] to the virtual host to create `Alias`, `AliasMatch`,
`ScriptAlias` or `ScriptAliasMatch` directives as per the `mod_alias` documentation.<br />
For example:
``` puppet
aliases => [
  { aliasmatch       => '^/image/(.*)\.jpg$',
    path             => '/files/jpg.images/$1.jpg',
  },
  { alias            => '/image',
    path             => '/ftp/pub/image',
  },
  { scriptaliasmatch => '^/cgi-bin(.*)',
    path             => '/usr/local/share/cgi-bin$1',
  },
  { scriptalias      => '/nagios/cgi-bin/',
    path             => '/usr/lib/nagios/cgi-bin/',
  },
  { alias            => '/nagios',
    path             => '/usr/share/nagios/html',
  },
],
```
For the `alias`, `aliasmatch`, `scriptalias` and `scriptaliasmatch` keys to work, each needs
a corresponding context, such as `<Directory /path/to/directory>` or
`<Location /some/location/here>`. Puppet creates the directives in the order specified in
the `aliases` parameter. As described in the `mod_alias` documentation, add more specific
`alias`, `aliasmatch`, `scriptalias` or `scriptaliasmatch` parameters before the more
general ones to avoid shadowing.<BR />
> **Note**: Use the `aliases` parameter instead of the `scriptaliases` parameter because
you can precisely control the order of various alias directives. Defining `ScriptAliases`
using the `scriptaliases` parameter means *all* `ScriptAlias` directives will come after
*all* `Alias` directives, which can lead to `Alias` directives shadowing `ScriptAlias`
directives. This often causes problems; for example, this could cause problems with Nagios.<BR />
If `apache::mod::passenger` is loaded and `PassengerHighPerformance` is `true`, the `Alias`
directive might not be able to honor the `PassengerEnabled => off` statement. See
[this article](http://www.conandalton.net/2010/06/passengerenabled-off-not-working.html) for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `allow_encoded_slashes`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off', 'nodecode']]`

Sets the `AllowEncodedSlashes` declaration for the virtual host, overriding the server
default. This modifies the virtual host responses to URLs with `\` and `/` characters.
Values: 'nodecode', 'off', 'on'. The default setting omits the declaration from the server
configuration and selects the Apache default setting of 'Off'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `block`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the list of things to which Apache blocks access. Valid option: 'scm', which
blocks web access to `.svn`, `.git`, and `.bzr` directories.

Default value: []

##### `cas_attribute_prefix`

Data type: `Any`

Adds a header with the value of this header being the attribute values when SAML
validation is enabled.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_attribute_delimiter`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the delimiter between attribute values in the header created by `cas_attribute_prefix`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_login_url`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the URL to which the module redirects users when they attempt to access a
CAS-protected resource and don't have an active session.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_root_proxied_as`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the URL end users see when access to this Apache server is proxied per vhost.
This URL should not include a trailing slash.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_scrub_request_headers`

Data type: `Any`

Remove inbound request headers that may have special meaning within mod_auth_cas.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_sso_enabled`

Data type: `Any`

Enables experimental support for single sign out (may mangle POST data).

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_validate_saml`

Data type: `Any`

Parse response from CAS server for SAML.

Default value: `undef`

##### `cas_validate_url`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the URL to use when validating a client-presented ticket in an HTTP query string.

Default value: `undef`

##### `comment`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String,Array[String]]]`

Adds comments to the header of the configuration file. Pass as string or an array of strings.
For example:
``` puppet
comment => "Account number: 123B",
```
Or:
``` puppet
comment => [
  "Customer: X",
  "Frontend domain: x.example.org",
]
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `custom_fragment`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Passes a string of custom configuration directives to place at the end of the virtual
host configuration.

Default value: `undef`

##### `default_vhost`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets a given `apache::vhost` defined type as the default to serve requests that do not
match any other `apache::vhost` defined types.

Default value: `false`

##### `directories`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Hash, Array[Variant[Array,Hash]]]]`

See the [`directories`](#parameter-directories-for-apachevhost) section.

Default value: `undef`

##### `directoryindex`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the list of resources to look for when a client requests an index of the directory
by specifying a '/' at the end of the directory name. See the `DirectoryIndex` directive
documentation for details.

Default value: ''

##### `docroot`

Data type: `Variant[Boolean,String]`

**Required**.<br />
Sets the `DocumentRoot` location, from which Apache serves files.<br />
If `docroot` and `manage_docroot` are both set to `false`, no `DocumentRoot` will be set
and the accompanying `<Directory /path/to/directory>` block will not be created.

##### `docroot_group`

Data type: `Any`

Sets group access to the `docroot` directory.

Default value: $::apache::params::root_group

##### `docroot_owner`

Data type: `Any`

Sets individual user access to the `docroot` directory.

Default value: 'root'

##### `docroot_mode`

Data type: `Any`

Sets access permissions for the `docroot` directory, in numeric notation.

Default value: `undef`

##### `manage_docroot`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether Puppet manages the `docroot` directory.

Default value: `true`

##### `error_log`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether `*_error.log` directives should be configured.

Default value: `true`

##### `error_log_file`

Data type: `Any`

Points the virtual host's error logs to a `*_error.log` file. If this parameter is
undefined, Puppet checks for values in `error_log_pipe`, then `error_log_syslog`.<br />
If none of these parameters is set, given a virtual host `example.com`, Puppet defaults
to '$logroot/example.com_error_ssl.log' for SSL virtual hosts and
'$logroot/example.com_error.log' for non-SSL virtual hosts.

Default value: `undef`

##### `error_log_pipe`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies a pipe to send error log messages to.<br />
This parameter has no effect if the `error_log_file` parameter has a value. If neither
this parameter nor `error_log_file` has a value, Puppet then checks `error_log_syslog`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `error_log_syslog`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to send all error log messages to syslog.
This parameter has no effect if either of the `error_log_file` or `error_log_pipe`
parameters has a value. If none of these parameters has a value, given a virtual host
`example.com`, Puppet defaults to '$logroot/example.com_error_ssl.log' for SSL virtual
hosts and '$logroot/example.com_error.log' for non-SSL virtual hosts.

Default value: `undef`

##### `error_documents`

Data type: `Any`

A list of hashes which can be used to override the
[ErrorDocument](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#errordocument)
settings for this virtual host.<br />
For example:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  error_documents => [
    { 'error_code' => '503', 'document' => '/service-unavail' },
    { 'error_code' => '407', 'document' => 'https://example.com/proxy/login' },
  ],
}
```

Default value: []

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['absent', 'present']`

Specifies if the virtual host is present or absent.<br />

Default value: 'present'

##### `fallbackresource`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Stdlib::Absolutepath, Enum['disabled']]]`

Sets the [FallbackResource](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_dir.html#fallbackresource)
directive, which specifies an action to take for any URL that doesn't map to anything in
your filesystem and would otherwise return 'HTTP 404 (Not Found)'. Values must either begin
with a '/' or be 'disabled'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `fastcgi_server`

Data type: `Any`

Specify an external FastCGI server to manage a connection to.

Default value: `undef`

##### `fastcgi_socket`

Data type: `Any`

Specify the socket that will be used to communicate with an external FastCGI server.

Default value: `undef`

##### `fastcgi_idle_timeout`

Data type: `Any`

If using fastcgi, this option sets the timeout for the server to respond.

Default value: `undef`

##### `fastcgi_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Specify an internal FastCGI directory that is to be managed.

Default value: `undef`

##### `filters`

Data type: `Any`

[Filters](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_filter.html) enable smart,
context-sensitive configuration of output content filters.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { "$::fqdn":
  filters => [
    'FilterDeclare   COMPRESS',
    'FilterProvider  COMPRESS DEFLATE resp=Content-Type $text/html',
    'FilterChain     COMPRESS',
    'FilterProtocol  COMPRESS DEFLATE change=yes;byteranges=no',
  ],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_copy_files`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2CopyFiles](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2copyfiles)
directive which influences how the requestion process pass files to the main connection.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_direct`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2Direct](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2direct)
directive which toggles the usage of the HTTP/2 Direct Mode.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_early_hints`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2EarlyHints](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2earlyhints)
directive which controls if HTTP status 103 interim responses are forwarded to
the client or not.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_max_session_streams`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2MaxSessionStreams](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2maxsessionstreams)
directive which sets the maximum number of active streams per HTTP/2 session
that the server allows.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_modern_tls_only`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2ModernTLSOnly](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2moderntlsonly)
directive which toggles the security checks on HTTP/2 connections in TLS mode.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_push`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2Push](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2push)
directive which toggles the usage of the HTTP/2 server push protocol feature.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_push_diary_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2PushDiarySize](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2pushdiarysize)
directive which toggles the maximum number of HTTP/2 server pushes that are
remembered per HTTP/2 connection.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_push_priority`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Sets the [H2PushPriority](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2pushpriority)
directive which defines the priority handling of pushed responses based on the
content-type of the response.

Default value: []

##### `h2_push_resource`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Sets the [H2PushResource](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2pushresource)
directive which declares resources for early pushing to the client.

Default value: []

##### `h2_serialize_headers`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2SerializeHeaders](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2serializeheaders)
directive which toggles if HTTP/2 requests are serialized in HTTP/1.1
format for processing by httpd core.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_stream_max_mem_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2StreamMaxMemSize](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2streammaxmemsize)
directive which sets the maximum number of outgoing data bytes buffered in
memory for an active stream.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_tls_cool_down_secs`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2TLSCoolDownSecs](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2tlscooldownsecs)
directive which sets the number of seconds of idle time on a TLS connection
before the TLS write size falls back to a small (~1300 bytes) length.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_tls_warm_up_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2TLSWarmUpSize](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2tlswarmupsize)
directive which sets the number of bytes to be sent in small TLS records (~1300
bytes) until doing maximum sized writes (16k) on https: HTTP/2 connections.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_upgrade`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [H2Upgrade](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2upgrade)
directive which toggles the usage of the HTTP/1.1 Upgrade method for switching
to HTTP/2.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_window_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets the [H2WindowSize](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2windowsize)
directive which sets the size of the window that is used for flow control from
client to server and limits the amount of data the server has to buffer.

Default value: `undef`

##### `headers`

Data type: `Any`

Adds lines to replace, merge, or remove response headers. See
[Apache's mod_headers documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_headers.html#header) for more information.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ip`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the IP address the virtual host listens on. By default, uses Apache's default behavior
of listening on all IPs.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ip_based`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enables an [IP-based](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/vhosts/ip-based.html) virtual
host. This parameter inhibits the creation of a NameVirtualHost directive, since those are
used to funnel requests to name-based virtual hosts.

Default value: `false`

##### `itk`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Configures [ITK](http://mpm-itk.sesse.net/) in a hash.<br />
Usage typically looks something like:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot => '/path/to/directory',
  itk     => {
    user  => 'someuser',
    group => 'somegroup',
  },
}
```
Values: a hash, which can include the keys:
* user + group
* `assignuseridexpr`
* `assigngroupidexpr`
* `maxclientvhost`
* `nice`
* `limituidrange` (Linux 3.5.0 or newer)
* `limitgidrange` (Linux 3.5.0 or newer)
Usage typically looks like:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot => '/path/to/directory',
  itk     => {
    user  => 'someuser',
    group => 'somegroup',
  },
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `action`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies whether you wish to configure mod_actions action directive which will
activate cgi-script when triggered by a request.

Default value: `undef`

##### `jk_mounts`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with 'JkMount' and 'JkUnMount' directives to handle the paths
for URL mapping between Tomcat and Apache.<br />
The parameter must be an array of hashes where each hash must contain the 'worker'
and either the 'mount' or 'unmount' keys.<br />
Usage typically looks like:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  jk_mounts => [
    { mount   => '/*',     worker => 'tcnode1', },
    { unmount => '/*.jpg', worker => 'tcnode1', },
  ],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `http_protocol_options`

Data type: `Optional[Pattern[/^((Strict|Unsafe)?\s*(\b(Registered|Lenient)Methods)?\s*(\b(Allow0\.9|Require1\.0))?)$/]]`

Specifies the strictness of HTTP protocol checks. Valid options: any sequence of the
following alternative values: `Strict` or `Unsafe`, `RegisteredMethods` or
`LenientMethods`, and `Allow0.9` or `Require1.0`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `keepalive`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off']]`

Determines whether to enable persistent HTTP connections with the `KeepAlive` directive
for the virtual host. By default, the global, server-wide `KeepAlive` setting is in effect.<br />
Use the `keepalive_timeout` and `max_keepalive_requests` parameters to set relevant options
for the virtual host.

Default value: `undef`

##### `keepalive_timeout`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [`KeepAliveTimeout`] directive for the virtual host, which determines the amount
of time to wait for subsequent requests on a persistent HTTP connection. By default, the
global, server-wide `KeepAlive` setting is in effect.<br />
This parameter is only relevant if either the global, server-wide `keepalive` parameter or
the per-vhost `keepalive` parameter is enabled.

Default value: `undef`

##### `max_keepalive_requests`

Data type: `Any`

Limits the number of requests allowed per connection to the virtual host. By default,
the global, server-wide `KeepAlive` setting is in effect.<br />
This parameter is only relevant if either the global, server-wide `keepalive` parameter or
the per-vhost `keepalive` parameter is enabled.

Default value: `undef`

##### `auth_kerb`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable `mod_auth_kerb` parameters for a virtual host.<br />
Usage typically looks like:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  auth_kerb              => `true`,
  krb_method_negotiate   => 'on',
  krb_auth_realms        => ['EXAMPLE.ORG'],
  krb_local_user_mapping => 'on',
  directories            => {
    path         => '/var/www/html',
    auth_name    => 'Kerberos Login',
    auth_type    => 'Kerberos',
    auth_require => 'valid-user',
  },
}
```

Default value: `false`

##### `krb_method_negotiate`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to use the Negotiate method.

Default value: 'on'

##### `krb_method_k5passwd`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether to use password-based authentication for Kerberos v5.

Default value: 'on'

##### `krb_authoritative`

Data type: `Any`

If set to 'off', authentication controls can be passed on to another module.

Default value: 'on'

##### `krb_auth_realms`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of Kerberos realms to use for authentication.

Default value: []

##### `krb_5keytab`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the Kerberos v5 keytab file's location.

Default value: `undef`

##### `krb_local_user_mapping`

Data type: `Any`

Strips @REALM from usernames for further use.

Default value: `undef`

##### `krb_verify_kdc`

Data type: `Any`

This option can be used to disable the verification tickets against local keytab to prevent
KDC spoofing attacks.

Default value: 'on'

##### `krb_servicename`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the service name that will be used by Apache for authentication. Corresponding
key of this name must be stored in the keytab.

Default value: 'HTTP'

##### `krb_save_credentials`

Data type: `Any`

This option enables credential saving functionality.

Default value: 'off'

##### `logroot`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the location of the virtual host's logfiles.

Default value: $::apache::logroot

##### `logroot_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['directory', 'absent']`

Determines whether or not to remove the logroot directory for a virtual host.

Default value: 'directory'

##### `logroot_mode`

Data type: `Any`

Overrides the mode the logroot directory is set to. Do *not* grant write access to the
directory the logs are stored in without being aware of the consequences; for more
information, see [Apache's log security documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/logs.html#security).

Default value: `undef`

##### `logroot_owner`

Data type: `Any`

Sets individual user access to the logroot directory.

Default value: `undef`

##### `logroot_group`

Data type: `Any`

Sets group access to the `logroot` directory.

Default value: `undef`

##### `log_level`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the verbosity of the error log.

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_body_limit`

Data type: `Any`

Configures the maximum request body size (in bytes) ModSecurity accepts for buffering.

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_disable_vhost`

Data type: `Any`

Disables `mod_security` on a virtual host. Only valid if `apache::mod::security` is included.

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_disable_ids`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Hash, Array]]`

Removes `mod_security` IDs from the virtual host.<br />
Values: An array of `mod_security` IDs to remove from the virtual host. Also takes a
hash allowing removal of an ID from a specific location.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_ids => [ 90015, 90016 ],
}
```

``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_ids => { '/location1' => [ 90015, 90016 ] },
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_disable_ips`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of IP addresses to exclude from `mod_security` rule matching.

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_disable_msgs`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Hash, Array]]`

Array of mod_security Msgs to remove from the virtual host. Also takes a hash allowing
removal of an Msg from a specific location.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_msgs => ['Blind SQL Injection Attack', 'Session Fixation Attack'],
}
```
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_msgs => { '/location1' => ['Blind SQL Injection Attack', 'Session Fixation Attack'] },
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_disable_tags`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Hash, Array]]`

Array of mod_security Tags to remove from the virtual host. Also takes a hash allowing
removal of an Tag from a specific location.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_tags => ['WEB_ATTACK/SQL_INJECTION', 'WEB_ATTACK/XSS'],
}
```
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  modsec_disable_tags => { '/location1' => ['WEB_ATTACK/SQL_INJECTION', 'WEB_ATTACK/XSS'] },
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_audit_log_file`

Data type: `Any`

If set, it is relative to `logroot`.<br />
One of the parameters that determines how to send `mod_security` audit
log ([SecAuditLog](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Reference-Manual#SecAuditLog)).
If none of those parameters are set, the global audit log is used
(''/var/log/httpd/modsec\_audit.log''; Debian and derivatives: ''/var/log/apache2/modsec\_audit.log''; others: ).

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_audit_log_pipe`

Data type: `Any`

If `modsec_audit_log_pipe` is set, it should start with a pipe. Example
'|/path/to/mlogc /path/to/mlogc.conf'.<br />
One of the parameters that determines how to send `mod_security` audit
log ([SecAuditLog](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Reference-Manual#SecAuditLog)).
If none of those parameters are set, the global audit log is used
(''/var/log/httpd/modsec\_audit.log''; Debian and derivatives: ''/var/log/apache2/modsec\_audit.log''; others: ).

Default value: `undef`

##### `modsec_audit_log`

Data type: `Any`

If `modsec_audit_log` is `true`, given a virtual host---for instance, example.com---it
defaults to 'example.com\_security\_ssl.log' for [SSL-encrypted][SSL encryption] virtual hosts
and 'example.com\_security.log' for unencrypted virtual hosts.<br />
One of the parameters that determines how to send `mod_security` audit
log ([SecAuditLog](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/ModSecurity/wiki/Reference-Manual#SecAuditLog)).<br />
If none of those parameters are set, the global audit log is used
(''/var/log/httpd/modsec\_audit.log''; Debian and derivatives: ''/var/log/apache2/modsec\_audit.log''; others: ).

Default value: `undef`

##### `no_proxy_uris`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies URLs you do not want to proxy. This parameter is meant to be used in combination
with [`proxy_dest`](#proxy_dest).

Default value: []

##### `no_proxy_uris_match`

Data type: `Any`

This directive is equivalent to `no_proxy_uris`, but takes regular expressions.

Default value: []

##### `proxy_preserve_host`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [ProxyPreserveHost Directive](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypreservehost).<br />
Setting this parameter to `true` enables the `Host:` line from an incoming request to be
proxied to the host instead of hostname. Setting it to `false` sets this directive to 'Off'.

Default value: `false`

##### `proxy_add_headers`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [ProxyAddHeaders Directive](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxyaddheaders).<br />
This parameter controlls whether proxy-related HTTP headers (X-Forwarded-For,
X-Forwarded-Host and X-Forwarded-Server) get sent to the backend server.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_error_override`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [ProxyErrorOverride Directive](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxyerroroverride).
This directive controls whether Apache should override error pages for proxied content.

Default value: `false`

##### `options`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the `Options` for the specified virtual host. For example:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  options => ['Indexes','FollowSymLinks','MultiViews'],
}
```
> **Note**: If you use the `directories` parameter of `apache::vhost`, 'Options',
'Override', and 'DirectoryIndex' are ignored because they are parameters within `directories`.

Default value: ['Indexes','FollowSymLinks','MultiViews']

##### `override`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the overrides for the specified virtual host. Accepts an array of
[AllowOverride](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#allowoverride) arguments.

Default value: ['None']

##### `passenger_enabled`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the value for the [PassengerEnabled](http://www.modrails.com/documentation/Users%20guide%20Apache.html#PassengerEnabled)
directive to 'on' or 'off'. Requires `apache::mod::passenger` to be included.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => [
    { path              => '/path/to/directory',
      passenger_enabled => 'on',
    },
  ],
}
```
> **Note:** There is an [issue](http://www.conandalton.net/2010/06/passengerenabled-off-not-working.html)
using the PassengerEnabled directive with the PassengerHighPerformance directive.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_base_uri`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerBaseURI](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerbase_rui),
 to specify that the given URI is an distinct application that should be served by Passenger.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_ruby`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Sets [PassengerRuby](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerruby),
the Ruby interpreter to use for the application, on this virtual host.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_python`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Sets [PassengerPython](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerpython),
the Python interpreter to use for the application, on this virtual host.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_nodejs`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Sets the [`PassengerNodejs`](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengernodejs),
the NodeJS interpreter to use for the application, on this virtual host.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_meteor_app_settings`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerMeteorAppSettings](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermeteorappsettings),
to specify a JSON file with settings for the application when using a Meteor
application in non-bundled mode

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_app_env`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerAppEnv](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerappenv),
the environment for the Passenger application. If not specified, defaults to the global
setting or 'production'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_app_root`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Sets [PassengerRoot](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerapproot),
the location of the Passenger application root if different from the DocumentRoot.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_app_group_name`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerAppGroupName](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerappgroupname),
 the name of the application group that the current application should belong to.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_app_type`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['meteor', 'node', 'rack', 'wsgi']]`

Sets [PassengerAppType](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerapptype),
 to force Passenger to recognize the application as a specific type.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_startup_file`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets the [PassengerStartupFile](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerstartupfile)
path. This path is relative to the application root.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_restart_dir`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets the [PassengerRestartDir](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerrestartdir)
 to customize the directory in which `restart.txt` is searched for.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_spawn_method`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['direct', 'smart']]`

Sets [PassengerSpawnMethod](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerspawnmethod),
whether Passenger spawns applications directly, or using a prefork copy-on-write mechanism.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_load_shell_envvars`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerLoadShellEnvvars](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerloadshellenvvars),
to enable or disable the loading of shell environment variables before spawning the application.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_rolling_restarts`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerRollingRestarts](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerrollingrestarts),
to enable or disable support for zero-downtime application restarts through `restart.txt`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_resist_deployment_errors`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerResistDeploymentErrors](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerresistdeploymenterrors),
to enable or disable resistance against deployment errors.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_user`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerUser](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengeruser),
the running user for sandboxing applications.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_group`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerGroup](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengergroup),
the running group for sandboxing applications.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_friendly_error_pages`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerFriendlyErrorPages](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerfriendlyerrorpages),
which can display friendly error pages whenever an application fails to start. This
friendly error page presents the startup error message, some suggestions for solving
the problem, a backtrace and a dump of the environment variables.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_min_instances`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMinInstances](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermininstances),
the minimum number of application processes to run.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_instances`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxInstances](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxinstances),
the maximum number of application processes to run.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_preloader_idle_time`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxPreloaderIdleTime](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxpreloaderidletime),
the maximum amount of time the preloader will wait before shutting down and idle process.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_force_max_concurrent_requests_per_process`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerForceMaxConcurrentRequestsPerProcess](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerforcemaxconcurrentrequestsperprocess),
the maximum amount of concurrent requests the application can handle per process.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_start_timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerStartTimeout](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerstarttimeout),
the timeout for the application startup.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_concurrency_model`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['process', 'thread']]`

Sets [PassengerConcurrencyModel](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerconcurrencyodel),
to specify the I/O concurrency model that should be used for Ruby application processes.
Passenger supports two concurrency models:<br />
* `process`  single-threaded, multi-processed I/O concurrency.
* `thread`  multi-threaded, multi-processed I/O concurrency.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_thread_count`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerThreadCount](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerthreadcount),
the number of threads that Passenger should spawn per Ruby application process.<br />
This option only has effect if PassengerConcurrencyModel is `thread`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_requests`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxRequests](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxrequests),
the maximum number of requests an application process will process.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_request_time`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxRequestTime](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxrequesttime),
the maximum amount of time, in seconds, that an application process may take to
process a request.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_memory_limit`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMemoryLimit](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermemorylimit),
the maximum amount of memory that an application process may use, in megabytes.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_stat_throttle_rate`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerStatThrottleRate](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerstatthrottlerate),
to set a limit, in seconds, on how often Passenger will perform it's filesystem checks.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_pre_start`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String,Array[String]]]`

Sets [PassengerPreStart](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerprestart),
the URL of the application if pre-starting is required.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_high_performance`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerHighPerformance](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerhighperformance),
to enhance performance in return for reduced compatibility.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_buffer_upload`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerBufferUpload](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerbufferupload),
to buffer HTTP client request bodies before they are sent to the application.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_buffer_response`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerBufferResponse](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerbufferresponse),
to buffer Happlication-generated responses.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_error_override`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerErrorOverride](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengererroroverride),
to specify whether Apache will intercept and handle response with HTTP status codes of
400 and higher.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_request_queue_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxRequestQueueSize](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxrequestqueuesize),
to specify the maximum ammount of requests that will be allow to queue whenever the maximum
concurrent request limit is reached. If the queue is already at this specified limit, then
Passenger will immediately send a "503 Service Unavailable" error to any incoming requests.<br />
A value of 0 means that the queue size is unbounded.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_max_request_queue_time`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerMaxRequestQueueTime](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengermaxrequestqueuetime),
to specify the maximum ammount of time that requests that will be allow to stay in the queue
whenever the maximum concurrent request limit is reached. If a request reaches this specified
limit, then Passenger will send a "504 Gateway Timeout" error for that request.<br />
A value of 0 means that the queue time is unbounded.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_sticky_sessions`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerStickySessions](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerstickysessions),
to specify that, whenever possible, all requests sent by a client will be routed to the same
originating application process.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_sticky_sessions_cookie_name`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Sets [PassengerStickySessionsCookieName](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerstickysessionscookiename),
to specify the name of the sticky sessions cookie.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_allow_encoded_slashes`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerAllowEncodedSlashes](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerallowencodedslashes),
to allow URLs with encoded slashes. Please note that this feature will not work properly
unless Apache's `AllowEncodedSlashes` is also enabled.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_debugger`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets [PassengerDebugger](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerdebugger),
to turns support for Ruby application debugging on or off.

Default value: `undef`

##### `passenger_lve_min_uid`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Sets [PassengerLveMinUid](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/config/apache/reference/#passengerlveminuid),
to only allow the spawning of applicationprocesses with UIDs equal to, or higher than, this
specified value on LVE-enabled kernels.

Default value: `undef`

##### `php_values`

Data type: `Any`

Allows per-virtual host setting [`php_value`s](http://php.net/manual/en/configuration.changes.php).
These flags or values can be overwritten by a user or an application.
Within a vhost declaration:
``` puppet
  php_values    => [ 'include_path ".:/usr/local/example-app/include"' ],
```

Default value: {}

##### `php_flags`

Data type: `Any`

Allows per-virtual host setting [`php_flag`s](http://php.net/manual/en/configuration.changes.php).
These flags or values can be overwritten by a user or an application.

Default value: {}

##### `php_admin_values`

Data type: `Any`

Allows per-virtual host setting [`php_admin_value`](http://php.net/manual/en/configuration.changes.php).
These flags or values cannot be overwritten by a user or an application.

Default value: {}

##### `php_admin_flags`

Data type: `Any`

Allows per-virtual host setting [`php_admin_flag`](http://php.net/manual/en/configuration.changes.php).
These flags or values cannot be overwritten by a user or an application.

Default value: {}

##### `port`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the port the host is configured on. The module's defaults ensure the host listens
on port 80 for non-SSL virtual hosts and port 443 for SSL virtual hosts. The host only
listens on the port set in this parameter.

Default value: `undef`

##### `priority`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the relative load-order for Apache HTTPD VirtualHost configuration files.<br />
If nothing matches the priority, the first name-based virtual host is used. Likewise,
passing a higher priority causes the alphabetically first name-based virtual host to be
used if no other names match.<br />
> **Note:** You should not need to use this parameter. However, if you do use it, be
aware that the `default_vhost` parameter for `apache::vhost` passes a priority of '15'.<br />
To omit the priority prefix in file names, pass a priority of `false`.

Default value: `undef`

##### `protocols`

Data type: `Array[Enum['h2', 'h2c', 'http/1.1']]`

Sets the [Protocols](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/en/mod/core.html#protocols)
directive, which lists available protocols for the virutal host.

Default value: []

##### `protocols_honor_order`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Sets the [ProtocolsHonorOrder](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/en/mod/core.html#protocolshonororder)
directive which determines wether the order of Protocols sets precedence during negotiation.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_dest`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the destination address of a [ProxyPass](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypass) configuration.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_pass`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies an array of `path => URI` values for a [ProxyPass](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypass)
configuration. Optionally, parameters can be added as an array.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  proxy_pass => [
    { 'path' => '/a', 'url' => 'http://backend-a/' },
    { 'path' => '/b', 'url' => 'http://backend-b/' },
    { 'path' => '/c', 'url' => 'http://backend-a/c', 'params' => {'max'=>20, 'ttl'=>120, 'retry'=>300}},
    { 'path' => '/l', 'url' => 'http://backend-xy',
      'reverse_urls' => ['http://backend-x', 'http://backend-y'] },
    { 'path' => '/d', 'url' => 'http://backend-a/d',
      'params' => { 'retry' => '0', 'timeout' => '5' }, },
    { 'path' => '/e', 'url' => 'http://backend-a/e',
      'keywords' => ['nocanon', 'interpolate'] },
    { 'path' => '/f', 'url' => 'http://backend-f/',
      'setenv' => ['proxy-nokeepalive 1','force-proxy-request-1.0 1']},
    { 'path' => '/g', 'url' => 'http://backend-g/',
      'reverse_cookies' => [{'path' => '/g', 'url' => 'http://backend-g/',}, {'domain' => 'http://backend-g', 'url' => 'http:://backend-g',},], },
    { 'path' => '/h', 'url' => 'http://backend-h/h',
      'no_proxy_uris' => ['/h/admin', '/h/server-status'] },
  ],
}
```
* `reverse_urls`. *Optional.* This setting is useful when used with `mod_proxy_balancer`. Values: an array or string.
* `reverse_cookies`. *Optional.* Sets `ProxyPassReverseCookiePath` and `ProxyPassReverseCookieDomain`.
* `params`. *Optional.* Allows for ProxyPass key-value parameters, such as connection settings.
* `setenv`. *Optional.* Sets [environment variables](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#envsettings) for the proxy directive. Values: array.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_dest_match`

Data type: `Any`

This directive is equivalent to [`proxy_dest`][], but takes regular expressions, see
[ProxyPassMatch](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypassmatch)
for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_dest_reverse_match`

Data type: `Any`

Allows you to pass a ProxyPassReverse if [`proxy_dest_match`][] is specified. See
[ProxyPassReverse](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypassreverse)
for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `proxy_pass_match`

Data type: `Any`

This directive is equivalent to [`proxy_pass`][], but takes regular expressions, see
[ProxyPassMatch](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_proxy.html#proxypassmatch)
for details.

Default value: `undef`

##### `redirect_dest`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the address to redirect to.

Default value: `undef`

##### `redirect_source`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the source URIs that redirect to the destination specified in `redirect_dest`.
If more than one item for redirect is supplied, the source and destination must be the same
length, and the items are order-dependent.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  redirect_source => ['/images','/downloads'],
  redirect_dest   => ['http://img.example.com/','http://downloads.example.com/'],
}
```

Default value: '/'

##### `redirect_status`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the status to append to the redirect.
``` puppet
  apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  redirect_status => ['temp','permanent'],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `redirectmatch_regexp`

Data type: `Any`

Determines which server status should be raised for a given regular expression
and where to forward the user to. Entered as an array alongside redirectmatch_status
and redirectmatch_dest.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  redirectmatch_status => ['404','404'],
  redirectmatch_regexp => ['\.git(/.*|$)/','\.svn(/.*|$)'],
  redirectmatch_dest => ['http://www.example.com/$1','http://www.example.com/$2'],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `redirectmatch_status`

Data type: `Any`

Determines which server status should be raised for a given regular expression
and where to forward the user to. Entered as an array alongside redirectmatch_regexp
and redirectmatch_dest.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  redirectmatch_status => ['404','404'],
  redirectmatch_regexp => ['\.git(/.*|$)/','\.svn(/.*|$)'],
  redirectmatch_dest => ['http://www.example.com/$1','http://www.example.com/$2'],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `redirectmatch_dest`

Data type: `Any`

Determines which server status should be raised for a given regular expression
and where to forward the user to. Entered as an array alongside redirectmatch_status
and redirectmatch_regexp.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  redirectmatch_status => ['404','404'],
  redirectmatch_regexp => ['\.git(/.*|$)/','\.svn(/.*|$)'],
  redirectmatch_dest => ['http://www.example.com/$1','http://www.example.com/$2'],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `request_headers`

Data type: `Any`

Modifies collected [request headers](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_headers.html#requestheader)
in various ways, including adding additional request headers, removing request headers,
and so on.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  request_headers => [
    'append MirrorID "mirror 12"',
    'unset MirrorID',
  ],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrites`

Data type: `Optional[Array]`

Creates URL rewrite rules. Expects an array of hashes.<br />
Values: Hash keys that are any of 'comment', 'rewrite_base', 'rewrite_cond', 'rewrite_rule'
or 'rewrite_map'.<br />
For example, you can specify that anyone trying to access index.html is served welcome.html
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  rewrites => [ { rewrite_rule => ['^index\.html$ welcome.html'] } ]
}
```
The parameter allows rewrite conditions that, when `true`, execute the associated rule.
For instance, if you wanted to rewrite URLs only if the visitor is using IE
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  rewrites => [
    {
      comment      => 'redirect IE',
      rewrite_cond => ['%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^MSIE'],
      rewrite_rule => ['^index\.html$ welcome.html'],
    },
  ],
}
```
You can also apply multiple conditions. For instance, rewrite index.html to welcome.html
only when the browser is Lynx or Mozilla (version 1 or 2)
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  rewrites => [
    {
      comment      => 'Lynx or Mozilla v1/2',
      rewrite_cond => ['%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^Lynx/ [OR]', '%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^Mozilla/[12]'],
      rewrite_rule => ['^index\.html$ welcome.html'],
    },
  ],
}
```
Multiple rewrites and conditions are also possible
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  rewrites => [
    {
      comment      => 'Lynx or Mozilla v1/2',
      rewrite_cond => ['%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^Lynx/ [OR]', '%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^Mozilla/[12]'],
      rewrite_rule => ['^index\.html$ welcome.html'],
    },
    {
      comment      => 'Internet Explorer',
      rewrite_cond => ['%{HTTP_USER_AGENT} ^MSIE'],
      rewrite_rule => ['^index\.html$ /index.IE.html [L]'],
    },
    {
      rewrite_base => /apps/,
      rewrite_rule => ['^index\.cgi$ index.php', '^index\.html$ index.php', '^index\.asp$ index.html'],
    },
    { comment      => 'Rewrite to lower case',
      rewrite_cond => ['%{REQUEST_URI} [A-Z]'],
      rewrite_map  => ['lc int:tolower'],
      rewrite_rule => ['(.*) ${lc:$1} [R=301,L]'],
    },
  ],
}
```
Refer to the [`mod_rewrite` documentation][`mod_rewrite`] for more details on what is
possible with rewrite rules and conditions.<br />
#   > **Note**: If you include rewrites in your directories, also include `apache::mod::rewrite`
and consider setting the rewrites using the `rewrites` parameter in `apache::vhost` rather
than setting the rewrites in the virtual host's directories.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrite_base`

Data type: `Any`

The parameter [`rewrite_base`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html#rewritebase)
specifies the URL prefix to be used for per-directory (htaccess) RewriteRule directives
that substitue a relative path.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrite_rule`

Data type: `Any`

The parameter [`rewrite_rile`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html#rewriterule)
allows the user to define the rules that will be used by the rewrite engine.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrite_cond`

Data type: `Any`

The parameter [`rewrite_cond`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html#rewritecond)
defines a rule condition, that when satisfied will implement that rule within the
rewrite engine.

Default value: `undef`

##### `rewrite_inherit`

Data type: `Any`

Determines whether the virtual host inherits global rewrite rules.<br />
Rewrite rules may be specified globally (in `$conf_file` or `$confd_dir`) or
inside the virtual host `.conf` file. By default, virtual hosts do not inherit
global settings. To activate inheritance, specify the `rewrites` parameter and set
`rewrite_inherit` parameter to `true`:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'site.name.fdqn':
  
  rewrites => [
    <rules>,
  ],
  rewrite_inherit => `true`,
}
```
> **Note**: The `rewrites` parameter is **required** for this to have effect<br />
Apache activates global `Rewrite` rules inheritance if the virtual host files contains
the following directives:
``` ApacheConf
RewriteEngine On
RewriteOptions Inherit
```
Refer to the [official `mod_rewrite` documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_rewrite.html),
section "Rewriting in Virtual Hosts".

Default value: `false`

##### `scriptalias`

Data type: `Any`

Defines a directory of CGI scripts to be aliased to the path '/cgi-bin', such as
'/usr/scripts'.

Default value: `undef`

##### `scriptaliases`

Data type: `Any`

> **Note**: This parameter is deprecated in favor of the `aliases` parameter.<br />
Passes an array of hashes to the virtual host to create either ScriptAlias or
ScriptAliasMatch statements per the [`mod_alias` documentation][`mod_alias`].
``` puppet
scriptaliases => [
  {
    alias => '/myscript',
    path  => '/usr/share/myscript',
  },
  {
    aliasmatch => '^/foo(.*)',
    path       => '/usr/share/fooscripts$1',
  },
  {
    aliasmatch => '^/bar/(.*)',
    path       => '/usr/share/bar/wrapper.sh/$1',
  },
  {
    alias => '/neatscript',
    path  => '/usr/share/neatscript',
  },
]
```
The ScriptAlias and ScriptAliasMatch directives are created in the order specified.
As with [Alias and AliasMatch](#aliases) directives, specify more specific aliases
before more general ones to avoid shadowing.

Default value: []

##### `serveradmin`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the email address Apache displays when it renders one of its error pages.

Default value: `undef`

##### `serveraliases`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [ServerAliases](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#serveralias)
of the site.

Default value: []

##### `servername`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the servername corresponding to the hostname you connect to the virtual host at.

Default value: $name

##### `setenv`

Data type: `Any`

Used by HTTPD to set environment variables for virtual hosts.<br />
Example:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'setenv.example.com':
  setenv => ['SPECIAL_PATH /foo/bin'],
}
```

Default value: []

##### `setenvif`

Data type: `Any`

Used by HTTPD to conditionally set environment variables for virtual hosts.

Default value: []

##### `setenvifnocase`

Data type: `Any`

Used by HTTPD to conditionally set environment variables for virtual hosts (caseless matching).

Default value: []

##### `suexec_user_group`

Data type: `Optional[Pattern[/^[\w-]+ [\w-]+$/]]`

Allows the spcification of user and group execution privileges for CGI programs through
inclusion of the `mod_suexec` module.

Default value: `undef`

##### `suphp_addhandler`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [suPHP](http://suphp.org/DocumentationView.html?file=apache/CONFIG)
working together with suphp_configpath and suphp_engine.<br />
An example virtual host configuration with suPHP:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'suphp.example.com':
  port             => '80',
  docroot          => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
  suphp_addhandler => 'x-httpd-php',
  suphp_engine     => 'on',
  suphp_configpath => '/etc/php5/apache2',
  directories      => { path => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
    'suphp'        => { user => 'myappuser', group => 'myappgroup' },
  }
}
```

Default value: $::apache::params::suphp_addhandler

##### `suphp_configpath`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [suPHP](http://suphp.org/DocumentationView.html?file=apache/CONFIG)
working together with suphp_addhandler and suphp_engine.<br />
An example virtual host configuration with suPHP:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'suphp.example.com':
  port             => '80',
  docroot          => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
  suphp_addhandler => 'x-httpd-php',
  suphp_engine     => 'on',
  suphp_configpath => '/etc/php5/apache2',
  directories      => { path => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
    'suphp'        => { user => 'myappuser', group => 'myappgroup' },
  }
}
```

Default value: $::apache::params::suphp_configpath

##### `suphp_engine`

Data type: `Enum['on', 'off']`

Sets up a virtual host with [suPHP](http://suphp.org/DocumentationView.html?file=apache/CONFIG)
working together with suphp_configpath and suphp_addhandler.<br />
An example virtual host configuration with suPHP:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'suphp.example.com':
  port             => '80',
  docroot          => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
  suphp_addhandler => 'x-httpd-php',
  suphp_engine     => 'on',
  suphp_configpath => '/etc/php5/apache2',
  directories      => { path => '/home/appuser/myphpapp',
    'suphp'        => { user => 'myappuser', group => 'myappgroup' },
  }
}
```

Default value: $::apache::params::suphp_engine

##### `vhost_name`

Data type: `Any`

Enables name-based virtual hosting. If no IP is passed to the virtual host, but the
virtual host is assigned a port, then the virtual host name is 'vhost_name:port'.
If the virtual host has no assigned IP or port, the virtual host name is set to the
title of the resource.

Default value: '*'

##### `virtual_docroot`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with a wildcard alias subdomain mapped to a directory with the
same name. For example, 'http://example.com' would map to '/var/www/example.com'.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'subdomain.loc':
  vhost_name      => '*',
  port            => '80',
  virtual_docroot => '/var/www/%-2+',
  docroot         => '/var/www',
  serveraliases   => ['*.loc',],
}
```

Default value: `false`

##### `wsgi_daemon_process`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
wsgi_script_aliases and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
A hash that sets the name of the WSGI daemon, accepting
[certain keys](http://modwsgi.readthedocs.org/en/latest/configuration-directives/WSGIDaemonProcess.html).<br />
An example virtual host configuration with WSGI:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'wsgi.example.com':
  port                        => '80',
  docroot                     => '/var/www/pythonapp',
  wsgi_daemon_process         => 'wsgi',
  wsgi_daemon_process_options =>
    { processes    => '2',
      threads      => '15',
      display-name => '%{GROUP}',
    },
  wsgi_process_group          => 'wsgi',
  wsgi_script_aliases         => { '/' => '/var/www/demo.wsgi' },
  wsgi_chunked_request        => 'On',
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_daemon_process_options`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_process_group,
wsgi_script_aliases and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
Sets the group ID that the virtual host runs under.

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_application_group`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
This parameter defines the [`WSGIApplicationGroup directive`](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/configuration-directives/WSGIApplicationGroup.html),
thus allowing you to specify which application group the WSGI application belongs to,
with all WSGI applications within the same group executing within the context of the
same Python sub interpreter.

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_import_script`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
This parameter defines the [`WSGIImportScript directive`](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/configuration-directives/WSGIImportScript.html),
which can be used in order to specify a script file to be loaded upon a process starting.

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_import_script_options`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
This parameter defines the [`WSGIImportScript directive`](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/configuration-directives/WSGIImportScript.html),
which can be used in order to specify a script file to be loaded upon a process starting.<br />
Specifies the process and aplication groups of the script.

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_chunked_request`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
This parameter defines the [`WSGIChunkedRequest directive`](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/configuration-directives/WSGIChunkedRequest.html),
allowing you to enable support for chunked request content.<br />
WSGI is technically incapable of supporting chunked request content without all chunked
request content having first been read in and buffered.

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_process_group`

Data type: `Any`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options,
wsgi_script_aliases and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
Requires a hash of web paths to filesystem .wsgi paths/

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_script_aliases`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
Uses the WSGI application to handle authorization instead of Apache when set to 'On'.<br />
For more information, see [mod_wsgi's WSGIPassAuthorization documentation] (https://modwsgi.readthedocs.org/en/latest/configuration-directives/WSGIPassAuthorization.html).

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_script_aliases_match`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group,
and wsgi_pass_authorization.<br />
Uses the WSGI application to handle authorization instead of Apache when set to 'On'.<br />
This directive is similar to `wsgi_script_aliases`, but makes use of regular expressions
in place of simple prefix matching.<br />
For more information, see [mod_wsgi's WSGIPassAuthorization documentation] (https://modwsgi.readthedocs.org/en/latest/configuration-directives/WSGIPassAuthorization.html).

Default value: `undef`

##### `wsgi_pass_authorization`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off', 'On', 'Off']]`

Sets up a virtual host with [WSGI](https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/mod_wsgi) alongside
wsgi_daemon_process, wsgi_daemon_process_options, wsgi_process_group and
wsgi_script_aliases.<br />
Enables support for chunked requests.

Default value: `undef`

##### `directories`

The `directories` parameter within the `apache::vhost` class passes an array of hashes
to the virtual host to create [Directory](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#directory),
[File](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#files), and
[Location](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#location) directive blocks.
These blocks take the form, '< Directory /path/to/directory>...< /Directory>'.<br />
The `path` key sets the path for the directory, files, and location blocks. Its value
must be a path for the 'directory', 'files', and 'location' providers, or a regex for
the 'directorymatch', 'filesmatch', or 'locationmatch' providers. Each hash passed to
`directories` **must** contain `path` as one of the keys.<br />
The `provider` key is optional. If missing, this key defaults to 'directory'.
 Values: 'directory', 'files', 'proxy', 'location', 'directorymatch', 'filesmatch',
'proxymatch' or 'locationmatch'. If you set `provider` to 'directorymatch', it
uses the keyword 'DirectoryMatch' in the Apache config file.<br />
An example use of `directories`:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'files.example.net':
  docroot     => '/var/www/files',
  directories => [
    { 'path'     => '/var/www/files',
      'provider' => 'files',
      'deny'     => 'from all',
    },
  ],
}
```
> **Note:** At least one directory should match the `docroot` parameter. After you
start declaring directories, `apache::vhost` assumes that all required Directory blocks
will be declared. If not defined, a single default Directory block is created that matches
the `docroot` parameter.<br />
Available handlers, represented as keys, should be placed within the `directory`,
`files`, or `location` hashes. This looks like
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => [ { path => '/path/to/directory', handler => value } ],
}
```
Any handlers you do not set in these hashes are considered 'undefined' within Puppet and
are not added to the virtual host, resulting in the module using their default values.

Default value: `undef`

##### `custom_fragment`

Pass a string of custom configuration directives to be placed at the end of the directory
configuration.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'monitor':
  
  directories => [
    {
      path => '/path/to/directory',
      custom_fragment => '
<Location /balancer-manager>
  SetHandler balancer-manager
  Order allow,deny
  Allow from all
</Location>
<Location /server-status>
  SetHandler server-status
  Order allow,deny
  Allow from all
</Location>
ProxyStatus On',
    },
  ]
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `error_documents`

An array of hashes used to override the [ErrorDocument](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#errordocument)
settings for the directory.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  directories => [
    { path            => '/srv/www',
      error_documents => [
        { 'error_code' => '503',
          'document'   => '/service-unavail',
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
}
```

Default value: []

##### `h2_copy_files`

Sets the [H2CopyFiles](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2copyfiles) directive.<br />
Note that you must declare `class {'apache::mod::http2': }` before using this directive.

Default value: `undef`

##### `h2_push_resource`

Sets the [H2PushResource](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_http2.html#h2pushresource) directive.<br />
Note that you must declare `class {'apache::mod::http2': }` before using this directive.

Default value: []

##### `headers`

Adds lines for [Header](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_headers.html#header) directives.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => {
    path    => '/path/to/directory',
    headers => 'Set X-Robots-Tag "noindex, noarchive, nosnippet"',
  },
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `options`

Lists the [Options](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#options) for the
given Directory block.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => [
    { path    => '/path/to/directory',
      options => ['Indexes','FollowSymLinks','MultiViews'],
    },
  ],
}
```

Default value: ['Indexes','FollowSymLinks','MultiViews']

##### `shib_compat_valid_user`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Default is Off, matching the behavior prior to this command's existence. Addresses a conflict
when using Shibboleth in conjunction with other auth/auth modules by restoring "standard"
Apache behavior when processing the "valid-user" and "user" Require rules. See the
[`mod_shib`documentation](https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/SHIB2/NativeSPApacheConfig#NativeSPApacheConfig-Server/VirtualHostOptions),
and [NativeSPhtaccess](https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/SHIB2/NativeSPhtaccess)
topic for more details. This key is disabled if `apache::mod::shib` is not defined.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_options`

Data type: `Any`

String or list of [SSLOptions](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#ssloptions),
which configure SSL engine run-time options. This handler takes precedence over SSLOptions
set in the parent block of the virtual host.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'secure.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => [
    { path        => '/path/to/directory',
      ssl_options => '+ExportCertData',
    },
    { path        => '/path/to/different/dir',
      ssl_options => ['-StdEnvVars', '+ExportCertData'],
    },
  ],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `additional_includes`

Specifies paths to additional static, specific Apache configuration files in virtual
host directories. Values: a array of string path.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  docroot     => '/path/to/directory',
  directories => [
    { path  => '/path/to/different/dir',
      additional_includes => ['/custom/path/includes', '/custom/path/another_includes',],
    },
  ],
}
```

Default value: []

##### `ssl`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enables SSL for the virtual host. SSL virtual hosts only respond to HTTPS queries.

Default value: `false`

##### `ssl_ca`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the SSL certificate authority to be used to verify client certificates used
for authentication. You must also set `ssl_verify_client` to use this.

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_ca

##### `ssl_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the SSL certification.

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_cert

##### `ssl_protocol`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies [SSLProtocol](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslprotocol).
Expects an array or space separated string of accepted protocols.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_cipher`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies [SSLCipherSuite](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslciphersuite).

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_honorcipherorder`

Data type: `Any`

Sets [SSLHonorCipherOrder](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslhonorcipherorder),
to cause Apache to use the server's preferred order of ciphers rather than the client's
preferred order.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_certs_dir`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the location of the SSL certification directory to verify client certs. Will not
be used unless `ssl_verify_client` is also set (see below).

Default value: $::apache::params::ssl_certs_dir

##### `ssl_chain`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the SSL chain. This default works out of the box, but it must be updated in
the base `apache` class with your specific certificate information before being used in
production.

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_chain

##### `ssl_crl`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the certificate revocation list to use. (This default works out of the box but
must be updated in the base `apache` class with your specific certificate information
before being used in production.)

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_crl

##### `ssl_crl_path`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the location of the certificate revocation list to verify certificates for
client authentication with. (This default works out of the box but must be updated in
the base `apache` class with your specific certificate information before being used in
production.)

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_crl_path

##### `ssl_crl_check`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the certificate revocation check level via the [SSLCARevocationCheck directive](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslcarevocationcheck)
for ssl client authentication. The default works out of the box but must be specified when
using CRLs in production. Only applicable to Apache 2.4 or higher; the value is ignored on
older versions.

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_crl_check

##### `ssl_key`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies the SSL key.<br />
Defaults are based on your operating system. Default work out of the box but must be
updated in the base `apache` class with your specific certificate information before
being used in production.

Default value: $::apache::default_ssl_key

##### `ssl_verify_client`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLVerifyClient](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslverifyclient)
directive, which sets the certificate verification level for client authentication.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  
  ssl_verify_client => 'optional',
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_verify_depth`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLVerifyDepth](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslverifydepth)
directive, which specifies the maximum depth of CA certificates in client certificate
verification. You must set `ssl_verify_client` for it to take effect.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  
  ssl_verify_client => 'require',
  ssl_verify_depth => 1,
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_protocol`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLProxyProtocol](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxyprotocol)
directive, which controls which SSL protocol flavors `mod_ssl` should use when establishing
its server environment for proxy. It connects to servers using only one of the provided
protocols.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_verify`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['none', 'optional', 'require', 'optional_no_ca']]`

Sets the [SSLProxyVerify](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxyverify)
directive, which configures certificate verification of the remote server when a proxy is
configured to forward requests to a remote SSL server.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_verify_depth`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[0]]`

Sets the [SSLProxyVerifyDepth](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxyverifydepth)
directive, which configures how deeply mod_ssl should verify before deciding that the
remote server does not have a valid certificate.<br />
A depth of 0 means that only self-signed remote server certificates are accepted,
the default depth of 1 means the remote server certificate can be self-signed or
signed by a CA that is directly known to the server.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_cipher_suite`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLProxyCipherSuite](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxyciphersuite)
directive, which controls cipher suites supported for ssl proxy traffic.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_ca_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLProxyCACertificateFile](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxycacertificatefile)
directive, which specifies an all-in-one file where you can assemble the Certificates
of Certification Authorities (CA) whose remote servers you deal with. These are used
for Remote Server Authentication. This file should be a concatenation of the PEM-encoded
certificate files in order of preference.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_machine_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLProxyMachineCertificateFile](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxymachinecertificatefile)
directive, which specifies an all-in-one file where you keep the certs and keys used
for this server to authenticate itself to remote servers. This file should be a
concatenation of the PEM-encoded certificate files in order of preference.
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  
  ssl_proxy_machine_cert => '/etc/httpd/ssl/client_certificate.pem',
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_check_peer_cn`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off']]`

Sets the [SSLProxyCheckPeerCN](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxycheckpeercn)
directive, which specifies whether the remote server certificate's CN field is compared
against the hostname of the request URL.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_check_peer_name`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off']]`

Sets the [SSLProxyCheckPeerName](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxycheckpeername)
directive, which specifies whether the remote server certificate's CN field is compared
against the hostname of the request URL.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxy_check_peer_expire`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['on', 'off']]`

Sets the [SSLProxyCheckPeerExpire](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxycheckpeerexpire)
directive, which specifies whether the remote server certificate is checked for expiration
or not.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_options`

Sets the [SSLOptions](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#ssloptions)
directive, which configures various SSL engine run-time options. This is the global
setting for the given virtual host and can be a string or an array.<br />
A string:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  
  ssl_options => '+ExportCertData',
}
```
An array:
``` puppet
apache::vhost { 'sample.example.net':
  
  ssl_options => ['+StrictRequire', '+ExportCertData'],
}
```

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_openssl_conf_cmd`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the [SSLOpenSSLConfCmd](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslopensslconfcmd)
directive, which provides direct configuration of OpenSSL parameters.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_proxyengine`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether or not to use [SSLProxyEngine](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslproxyengine).

Default value: `false`

##### `ssl_stapling`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Specifies whether or not to use [SSLUseStapling](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslusestapling).
By default, uses what is set globally.<br />
This parameter only applies to Apache 2.4 or higher and is ignored on older versions.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_stapling_timeout`

Data type: `Any`

Can be used to set the [SSLStaplingResponderTimeout](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslstaplingrespondertimeout) directive.<br />
This parameter only applies to Apache 2.4 or higher and is ignored on older versions.

Default value: `undef`

##### `ssl_stapling_return_errors`

Data type: `Any`

Can be used to set the [SSLStaplingReturnResponderErrors](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_ssl.html#sslstaplingreturnrespondererrors) directive.<br />
This parameter only applies to Apache 2.4 or higher and is ignored on older versions.

Default value: `undef`

##### `use_canonical_name`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['On', 'on', 'Off', 'off', 'DNS', 'dns']]`

Specifies whether to use the [`UseCanonicalName directive`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/core.html#usecanonicalname),
which allows you to configure how the server determines it's own name and port.

Default value: `undef`

### apache::vhost::custom

The `apache::vhost::custom` defined type is a thin wrapper around the `apache::custom_config` defined type, and simply overrides some of its default settings specific to the virtual host directory in Apache.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `apache::vhost::custom` defined type.

##### `content`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the configuration file's content.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies if the virtual host file is present or absent.

Default value: 'present'

##### `priority`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the relative load order for Apache HTTPD VirtualHost configuration files.

Default value: '25'

##### `verify_config`

Data type: `Any`

Specifies whether to validate the configuration file before notifying the Apache service.

Default value: `true`

## Resource types

### a2mod

Manage Apache 2 modules

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `a2mod` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `a2mod` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The name of the module to be managed

##### `lib`

The name of the .so library to be loaded

##### `identifier`

Module identifier string used by LoadModule. Default: module-name_module

## Functions

### apache::apache_pw_hash

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Currently uses SHA-hashes, because although this format is considered insecure, its the
most secure format supported by the most platforms.

#### `apache::apache_pw_hash(String[1] $password)`

Currently uses SHA-hashes, because although this format is considered insecure, its the
most secure format supported by the most platforms.

Returns: `String`

##### `password`

Data type: `String[1]`



### apache::bool2httpd

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Given a nil value (undef), bool2httpd will return 'Off'

Example:

   $trace_enable     = false
   $server_signature = 'mail'

   bool2httpd($trace_enable)
   # => 'Off'
   bool2httpd($server_signature)
   # => 'mail'
   bool2httpd(undef)
   # => 'Off'

#### `apache::bool2httpd(Any $arg)`

Given a nil value (undef), bool2httpd will return 'Off'

Example:

   $trace_enable     = false
   $server_signature = 'mail'

   bool2httpd($trace_enable)
   # => 'Off'
   bool2httpd($server_signature)
   # => 'mail'
   bool2httpd(undef)
   # => 'Off'

Returns: `Any`

##### `arg`

Data type: `Any`



### apache::validate_apache_log_level

Type: Ruby 4.x API

As per http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#loglevel
    * validate_apache_loglevel('info')

Modules maybe specified with their own levels like these:
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn mod_ssl.c:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl_module:info')

Expected to be used from the main or vhost.
Might be used from directory too later as apache supports that

#### `apache::validate_apache_log_level(String $log_level)`

As per http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#loglevel
    * validate_apache_loglevel('info')

Modules maybe specified with their own levels like these:
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn mod_ssl.c:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl_module:info')

Expected to be used from the main or vhost.
Might be used from directory too later as apache supports that

Returns: `Any`

##### `log_level`

Data type: `String`



### apache_pw_hash

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Currently uses SHA-hashes, because although this format is considered insecure, its the
most secure format supported by the most platforms.

#### `apache_pw_hash()`

Currently uses SHA-hashes, because although this format is considered insecure, its the
most secure format supported by the most platforms.

Returns: `Any`

### bool2httpd

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Given a nil value (undef), bool2httpd will return 'Off'
Example:
    $trace_enable     = false
    $server_signature = 'mail'
    bool2httpd($trace_enable)
    # => 'Off'
    bool2httpd($server_signature)
    # => 'mail'
    bool2httpd(undef)
    # => 'Off'

#### `bool2httpd()`

Given a nil value (undef), bool2httpd will return 'Off'
Example:
    $trace_enable     = false
    $server_signature = 'mail'
    bool2httpd($trace_enable)
    # => 'Off'
    bool2httpd($server_signature)
    # => 'mail'
    bool2httpd(undef)
    # => 'Off'

Returns: `Any`

### validate_apache_log_level

Type: Ruby 3.x API

As per http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#loglevel
    * validate_apache_loglevel('info')
Modules maybe specified with their own levels like these:
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn mod_ssl.c:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl_module:info')
Expected to be used from the main or vhost.
Might be used from directory too later as apaceh supports that

#### `validate_apache_log_level()`

As per http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/core.html#loglevel
    * validate_apache_loglevel('info')
Modules maybe specified with their own levels like these:
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn mod_ssl.c:info')
    * validate_apache_loglevel('warn ssl_module:info')
Expected to be used from the main or vhost.
Might be used from directory too later as apaceh supports that

Returns: `Any`

## Tasks

### init

Allows you to perform apache service functions

**Supports noop?** false

#### Parameters

##### `action`

Data type: `Enum[reload]`

Action to perform 

##### `service_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The name of the apache service 

